.\"
.\" Copyright (c) Mike Gabriel <mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH x2gokdrive @appmansuffix@ @vendorversion@
.SH NAME
x2gokdrive - X server providing a graphical backend for X2Go Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B x2gokdrive
.RI [\fB:\fP display ]
.RI [ option
.IR ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B x2gokdrive
is a kdrive server that provides a graphical backend for X2Go desktop
sessions, suppporting modern extensions like composite, damage and randr.
.PP
Unlike
.I nxagent (aka x2goagent)
which is an X proxy, i.e. limited to the capabilities of the host X server,
.B x2gokdrive
is a real X server which uses the host X server window as "framebuffer"
via fast SHM XImages.

.SH OPTIONS
The server accepts all the standard options of Xserver(@appmansuffix@).
.PP
Furthermore, it understands the \fInxagent\fR-way of providing session
options via the $DISPLAY environment variable. Currently, only a subset
of \fInxagent's\fR nx/nx display options is supported. Non-supported
nx/nx options get ignored.

.SH "SIGNALS"
Sending the SIGHUP signal to \fBx2gokdrive\fR switches the X server
from running to suspend state and back.
.PP
Sending the SIGTERM signal to \fBx2gokdrive\fR shuts down the X server
(and ends all applications attached to its $DISPLAY).

.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.IP \(bu 2
The '-host-cursor' cursor is static in its appearance.
.IP \(bu 2
The build gets a warning about 'nanosleep'. I think the various '-D'
build flags are causing this. I haven't figured as yet how to work
round it. It doesn't appear to break anything however.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(@miscmansuffix@), Xserver(@appmansuffix@), nxagent(@appmansuffic@), x2goagent(@appmansuffix@)

.SH AUTHOR
This man page has been written by Mike Gabriel
<mike.gabriel@das-netzwerkteam.de> for the X2Go Project
(https://wiki.x2go.org).